# Balance Sheet Gen
This repo contains a script to fetch (and one day cleanly output) balance information from a variety of financial institutions, for the purpose of automating adding entries to a balance sheet.

## Requirements
* python >= 3.6
* see requirements.txt

## Usage
`python3 balance_sheet_gen --config $PATH_TO_CONFIG_FILE`

If `--config` is not provided, the local file `./config.json` is read.

## Configuration
See config.json.example for an example configuration.

Eventually, I want to feed data into a CSV (or similar spreadsheet format) balance sheet,
so "columns" are used. Each column has an institution type, name, and configuration.

For example, if you have multiple accounts with the same provider, this configuration allows them to be tracked separately, by making multiple columns of the same type, but with differing configurations.

## Institutions
Institutions are the objects that can be defined under the "type" field in a given column. They are an interface with one method - `get_balance()`. Simply put, the institution returns its balance for the user-defined configuration.

`get_balance()` should always return USD, unless otherwise specified.

### Bitcoin Institution
This institution checks a series of wallet addresses against blockchain.info's API and returns the sum of BTC in USD, according to coingecko.

#### Configuration
|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`wallet_addrs`|List[str]|A list of valid BTC addresses to check|

### Chia Institution
This institution checks a series of wallet addresses against xchscan's API and returns the sum of XCH in USD, according to coingecko.

#### Configuration
|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`wallet_addrs`|List[str]|A list of valid XCH addresses to check|

### Coinbase Institution
This institution uses the Coinbase API to pull the total USD value of all assets summed together. The USD value is provided directly by Coinbase's API.

The provided API token must have the `wallet:accounts:read` scope for this Institution to function. API tokens can be generated here: [https://www.coinbase.com/settings/api](https://www.coinbase.com/settings/api)

Note that this Institution does _not_ get accounts / balances from Coinbase Pro.

#### Configuration
|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`api_key`|str|A valid API key for Coinbase's API|
|`api_secret`|str|A valid API secret for Coinbase's API|

### CoinbasePro Institution
This institution uses the Coinbase Pro API to pull the total USD value of all assets summed together. The USD value is provided directly by Coinbase Pro's API.

The provided API token must have the `View` permission for this Institution to function. API tokens can be generated here: [https://pro.coinbase.com/profile/api](https://pro.coinbase.com/profile/api)

Similarly to the above, this only fetches balances from a Coinbase _Pro_ account, and not the mapped Coinbase account.

#### Configuration
|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`api_key`|str|A valid API key for Coinbase Pro's API|
|`api_secret`|str|A valid API secret for Coinbase Pro's API|
|`passphrase`|str|The passphrase for the associated API key|

### Ethereum Institution
This institution checks a series of wallet addresses against ethplorer.io's API and returns the sum of ETH in USD, according to coingecko.

#### Configuration
|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`wallet_addrs`|List[str]|A list of valid ETH addresses to check|

### Helium Institution
This institution checks a series of Helium (HNT) wallet addresses against helium.io's API and returns the sum of HNT in USD, according to coingecko.

#### Configuration
|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`wallet_addrs`|List[str]|A list of valid HNT addresses to check|

### Discover Bank Institution
This institution retrieves account balances from Discover Bank accounts through the use of the mobile application's API. This works the same way as its' "quick view" feature.
A valid API key can be generated by `tools/generate_discover_bank_api_token.py`.
If you're _really_ interested (and/or distrustful of this tool), you can find your own device's API key by sniffing its HTTP traffic (after disabling SSL certificate verification).

#### Configuration
|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`account_id`|str|A valid account ID for your account / API key|
|`api_key`|str|An API key for Discover Bank's Mobile API|

### OFX Institution
This institution serves as a general connector to OFX servers. At this time, I don't have many to experiment on, nor in-depth knowledge of OFX, so your mileage may vary with this one. Configuration values for your bank's OFX service can be retrieved from [OFXHome](http://www.ofxhome.com/).

Notes:
* Even if your bank/brokerage has 2FA enabled, I bet they won't respect it if they support OFX. But before you blow a gasket, note that OFX access is read-only. So at least there's that.
* Even if there's an entry in OFXHome, it may not be accurate or may no longer be functional. Please try to connect using ofxget before plugging your configuration into this program.

#### Configuration
|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`username`|str|Your account's username|
|`password`|str|Your account's password|
|`account_id`|str|The account ID, according to your bank / brokerage|
|`account_type`|str|The type of account - at this time, only `investment` is supported|
|`institution_info`|Dict|A dictionary with information about the OFX server, with configuration as follows|

##### `insitution_info`

At this time, this configuration can only take on the following form. In the future™, it should be able to function with an `ofxget_friendly_name`, as the `ofxget` client does, to source these attributes from OFXHome (provided the service stays online).

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`org`|str|The name of the institution supporting OFX|
|`bank_id`|Optional[str]|If the institution is a bank, its ID according to OFXHome, else None|
|`broker_id`|Optional[str]|If the institution is a brokerage, its ID according to OFXHome, else None|
|`fid`|str|The FID, according to OFXHome|
|`url`|str|The OFX URL for this institution, according to OFXHome|

### Venmo Institution
Coming soon!
